Add Next.js 9.0.6 blogpost (#429)
zeit/next-site: pages/blog/next-9-0-x.mdx

import withPost from '../../components/blog/with-post'
import Image from '../../components/image'
import { meta } from '../../blog/next-9-0-x-preview.mdx'
import { TerminalInput } from '../../components/text/terminal'

export const config = { amp: true }

export default withPost({ ...meta })

> Next.js 9 was released approximately two months ago. This release has been very well received by the community. Much of this success can be attributed to new features, such as: built-in TypeScript support, dynamic routing, and API routes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next.js 9 was released approximately two months ago. This release has been very well received by the community. Much of this success can be attributed to new features, such as built-in TypeScript support, dynamic routing, and API routes.
```

The overwhelming feedback we had from community members was that they no longer needed a custom server. Their use cases are now handled by Next.js, reducing overall complexity.

One of Next.js' main goals is to find the sweet spot of developer experience and end-user experience. This means making your team significantly more productive when creating features while optimizing those features for production.

Every release, large or small, brings us closer to achieving this goal.

Since the release of Next.js 9, we've released six patch versions. This blog post will dive into some recent changes we've made to improve application performance, developer experience, and how we're aiming to ensure continuous optimization across all Next.js applications.

> - **[Improved Concurrency in Windows Environments](#improved-concurrency-in-windows-environments)**: The `next build` process is now more reliable on Windows and can parallelize work.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **[Improved Concurrency in Windows Environments](#improved-concurrency-in-windows-environments)**: The `next build` process is now more reliable on Windows and can parallelize work better.
```

Makes it sound like we weren't parallelizing on Windows before

Author: Joe said we disabled parallel work for terser.

- **[Gzip Compression by Default](#gzip-compression-by-default)**: Gzip compression is now added by default to reduce optimization steps needed.
- **[TypeScript Report on Active Pages Only](#typescript-report-on-active-pages-only)**: The built-in TypeScript support was extended to only watch changes on active pages making it faster and more reliable.
- **[Telemetry](#telemetry)**: Will help us focus on what parts of Next.js to optimize and validate optimizations have the intended effect.
- **[Improved `next/head` Element Tracking](#improved-nexthead-element-tracking)**: The `next-head` class has been removed which makes it easier to implement certain tooling that verifies their implementation.
- **[Preventing Non-Pages in the Pages Directory](#preventing-non-pages-in-the-pages-directory)**: Optimizing your application security and `next build` time by preventing accidental publishing of non-pages.

> - **[Runtime Improvements](#runtime-improvements)**: When certain parts of Next.js are not used, for example `next/dynamic`, they will no longer be required at runtime, making bundle sizes smaller.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **[Runtime Improvements](#runtime-improvements)**: When certain parts of Next.js are not used, for example, `next/dynamic`, they will no longer be required at runtime, making bundle sizes smaller.
```

This middleware compresses responses so fewer bytes are sent over-the-wire to your users. Normally, this should be handled by a reverse proxy like Nginx. Reverse proxies remove the CPU-heavy work from the single-threaded Node process.

However, when inspecting Next.js usage on the web, we found that a large percentage of companies did not have any compression configured.

On platforms like [ZEIT Now](https://zeit.co), `gzip` and `brotli` are handled automatically on the proxy level.

When self-hosting, companies have to add in gzip (via `compression` or a reverse proxy) themselves.

Starting in Next.js 9.0.4, `gzip` compression is included by default when using `next start` or a custom `server.js`.

`brotli` support is [coming soon](https://github.com/expressjs/compression/pull/150) as Node.js now natively supports Brotli.

If compression is already enabled in your application via a custom server, Next.js will not add its own compressor.

Next.js does not include compression for the serverless target by default because when using the serverless target assets are uploaded separately and not served through Node.js.

> If you're deploying on a platform that handles compression like [ZEIT Now](https://zeit.co/home) no changes are needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're deploying on a platform that handles compression such as [ZEIT Now](https://zeit.co/home) no changes are needed.
```

### TypeScript Report on Active Pages Only

Next.js 9 included built-in support for TypeScript. All that's necessary is to rename a single page from `.js` to `.tsx`. Next.js will automatically handle or guide you through any remaining setup.

Next.js also handles type-checking by running `tsc --watch` in parallel to the development process. During development, Next.js has a concept called on-demand entries. This feature only compiles pages that you are actively working on — you can read more about it [here](https://nextjs.org/blog/next-8#improved-on-demand-entries).

<Image
  caption={<>The on-demand entries flow</>}
  captionSpacing={30}
  src="/static/blog/next-8/flow.jpg"
  width={966 / 2}
  height={1061 / 2}
/>

As of 9.0.4, Next.js now only reports type errors for pages that are being actively compiled by on-demand entries. This reduces a lot of type-checking noise while focusing on a specific set of pages.

> Full application type-checking is still ran during `next build` or can be handled in/by your editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Full application type-checking is still run during `next build` or can be handled in/by your editor.
```

### Telemetry

Next.js was released almost 3 years ago, and the framework has grown considerably in these 3 years, from new features to better defaults for all users.

The way that we've been approaching this improvement process has been very much a manual one.

ZEIT has a few large Next.js applications. For example, [zeit.co](https://zeit.co/), [zeit.co/docs](http://zeit.co/docs), and [nextjs.org](http://nextjs.org/). We've been [dogfooding](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eating_your_own_dog_food) Next.js internally at ZEIT and improved Next.js based on our experiences.

> On top of that we actively engage with the community to gather feedback. Chances are that you have talked to Tim before to provide feedback on how you're using Next.js at your company.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On top of that, we actively engage with the community to gather feedback. Chances are that you have talked to Tim before to provide feedback on how you're using Next.js at your company.
```

However, there is a problem with this approach, which is that we can only collect feedback from a subset of users. This subset may have different needs and use-cases than you / your company.

One example of this would be importing CSS files, which is non-standard, but quite a chunk of users seem to be using this, either through `next-css` (or Sass/Less), or a custom configuration. If we know what percentage of users are using that specific approach we can prioritize improving it.

For this reason, we've introduced an anonymous, more automated, approach to collecting these points of feedback so that we can improve Next.js even more in the near future.

This will also allow us to verify if improvements made to the framework are improving the baseline of all applications.

You can read more about telemetry and how to opt-out if you don't want to participate [here](https://nextjs.org/telemetry).

### Build Feedback with Dots Indicating Activity

While talking to users of Next.js, one small feedback item was that it sometimes looked like `next build` wasn't doing anything, mostly visually.

> To solve this, we've add a loading indicator to the console output while running `next build`. This output gives a visual indication that the command is still running, and that the process is not frozen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To solve this, we've added a loading indicator to the console output while running `next build`. This output gives a visual indication that the command is still running, and that the process is not frozen.
```

/>

### Improved `next/head` Element Tracking

Next.js provides a built-in way to manage `<head>` elements because its responsible for rendering the HTML of your application. This API is exposed through the `next/head` module.

For example, to add a title to the page:

```jsx
import Head from 'next/head'

export default function MyPage() {
  return (
    <>
      <Head>
        <title>My Title</title>
      </Head>
      <h1>Hello World</h1>
    </>
  )
}
```

When rendering to HTML, Next.js will collect all components rendered within `<Head>` and render the tags into the `<head>` of your page.

However, Next.js allows single page application (SPA) type route transitions using the `<Link>` component.

When you click on a `<Link>`, Next.js will fetch the required JavaScript file to render the page on the client-side. Then, it will render the React component associated with the file.

Because this transition happens client-side, we have to clean up the `<head>` elements injected from the previous page, otherwise outdated elements could be present on another page.

Previously, Next.js kept track of these elements by adding a class name to every `<Head>`-provided element.

> Taking above example, the `<head>` would look like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Taking the above example, the `<head>` would look like:
```

```jsx
<head>
  <title class="next-head">My Title</title>
</head>
```

> This solution works really well as every element that got injected through `next/head` was clearly marked and easy to clean up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This solution works well as every element that got injected through `next/head` was clearly marked and easy to clean up.
```

As a result, this approach reduces the initial HTML payload size when multiple elements are injected into the `<head>` of a page.

### Preventing Non-Pages in the Pages Directory

When getting started with Next.js, the first thing you do is create a `pages` directory.

The convention is that every file in the `pages` directory becomes a route in the application. A simple example is that `pages/about.js` becomes `/about`.

As time progressed, we received occasional reports that users' applications, both large and small, had poor build performance.

Upon further investigation, it was revealed that these users had created their entire component structure in the `pages` directory.

As every file in the `pages` directory is treated as a page, every component was being compiled as a page in the application. This causes a lot of build-time overhead, generating 2+ JavaScript files for invalid pages.

Furthermore, this would partially affect how Next.js decides to generate code-split chunks. This is because Next.js uses heuristics about library usage across pages.

> Because of this, it's really important that we ensure users don't introduce this pitfall into their Next.js application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because of this, we must ensure users don't introduce this pitfall into their Next.js application.
```

By default, Next.js adds some context values into the React tree, for example, the router that can be read using `useRouter`.

The way the `with-apollo` example used to render the React tree was through rendering `<App>` and trying to fill in the missing properties manually. With the addition of React Context this was no longer possible because the context provider is a separate element.

Starting from Next.js 9.0.4 a new property called `AppTree` was added to the context object in `getInitialProps`. It was specifically added for cases where external libraries have to traverse the whole React tree like with Apollo's `getDataFromTree`.

The `with-apollo` example has been [updated to reflect the changes](https://github.com/zeit/next.js/blob/v9.0.4/examples/with-apollo/lib/with-apollo-client.js#L20-L34). If you already have Apollo implemented in your app it's recommended to update to the `AppTree` approach so that `useRouter` and other APIs added in the future will work correctly in your Next.js application.

> If you're not using using Apollo or a similar library we recommend to try and avoid using AppTree, as Next.js team does not recommend traversing the React tree in general. It adds quite a lot of performance overhead because the React tree is rendered multiple times instead of just once.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're not using Apollo or a similar library we recommend to try and avoid using AppTree, as Next.js team does not recommend traversing the React tree in general. It adds quite a lot of performance overhead because the React tree is rendered multiple times instead of just once.
```

### Removal of the `next-server` Package

> When we started optimizing Next.js for serverless deployments over a year ago, we created a package called `next-server`. This package was experimental and published alongside the `next` package. It was never documented publicly, but was an experiment to create the smallest possible Next.js server runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When we started optimizing Next.js for serverless deployments over a year ago, we created a package called `next-server`. This package was experimental and published alongside the `next` package. It was never documented publicly but was an experiment to create the smallest possible Next.js server runtime.
```

In doing so, the `next-server` became obsolete and was replaced by the [serverless target](https://nextjs.org/docs#serverless-deployment). This target has a far more optimized output than using the `next-server` package as a replacement for `next`.

While this package was obsolete and could not be used directly, we kept it around. This was because it had internals that were shared between packages and moving the code would require a non-trivial amount of effort.

We've recently made this effort and moved the code from `next-server` back into the `next` package. Meaning that all code for the Next.js framework now lives in the `next` package.

This makes it easier for beginners and seasoned contributors alike to contribute to Next.js. There is now a single compilation process and unified build configuration. Previously, there were separate settings for `next` and `next-server`, along with arbitrary constraints on what code belonged in each package.

### Upgrading Next.js

If your project is running on an older version of Next.js, we recommend upgrading to Next.js 9.

> In most cases no changes are required to upgrade. You can follow the [upgrade guide](https://github.com/zeit/next.js/blob/canary/UPGRADING.md#migrating-from-v8-to-v9) to ensure a smooth upgrade experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In most cases, no changes are required to upgrade. You can follow the [upgrade guide](https://github.com/zeit/next.js/blob/canary/UPGRADING.md#migrating-from-v8-to-v9) to ensure a smooth upgrade experience.
```
